Data Exchange.
So what do we mean by data exchange?
As Xavier mentioned,
we're talking about in today's
Mac OS X and earlier Mac OS,
some technologies such
as the Scrap Manager,
which we've had since 1984
for doing data exchange,
moving data between
applications on the clipboard.
A few years later,
we introduced the Drag Manager,
which is a similar API in many ways
for moving data between applications,
but through drag gestures.
We're also talking today
about the Translation Manager,
which was also introduced several
years ago and integrated into scrap
and drag so that translations can be
performed somewhat automatically when
moving data between applications.
And all of these technologies are
based on OS type data identifiers,
four character data identifiers.
And all of these technologies
have served us very well.
We've made a lot of strides in user
interface in making it easy for users
to move their data between applications.
But there are also some limitations,
some problems, that we would like to
get past going forward.
We have a lot of ideas for
enhancing the user experience and
being able to make applications
work together more seamlessly.
And we're bumping up
against some problems.
One is just that the scrap
manager and the drag manager,
although they have a lot in common for
marshalling a bunch of data together
to move to another application,
they're separate APIs.
And so if you want to
support the clipboard,
you do one thing.
When you want to add
drag and drop support,
you have a whole other similar
API that you also have to adopt.
So it's kind of double the work for you.
Thank you.
With the Translation Manager,
it's kind of a difficult API to use.
The model isn't really quite what
we want for data translation.
It's handle-based,
so it doesn't really work with core
foundation collections and so on,
which make memory management much easier.
And so translation just isn't
really working quite right.
And then finally,
the whole issue of type identification.
As I said, the Carbon technologies
tend to be OS type-based.
Cocoa uses strings.
NS Pasteboard uses strings
for data identifiers.
And then there's also MIME types
coming in over the internet.
There's file name extensions.
So all these different
ways of identifying types.
And there's a number of issues with
that that we'd like to resolve.
So what are the solutions that we're
going to be talking about today?
The first one is the Carbon Pasteboard.
This is a new technology, new API,
which is a complete replacement for the
Scrap Manager and also a replacement
for large pieces of the Drag Manager.
So it unifies that data model for
moving data around between apps.
And then there's a new
API called Translation Services,
which is integrated into the
Carbon Pasteboard and improves the
translation architecture to make it
easier and faster to work with when
you're developing your applications.
And underneath those technologies
is something we're calling
Uniform Type Identifiers,
which is a new way to describe type
information and gives a very rich
model for managing type information.
And it's a foundation both for
translation and Pasteboard,
as well as future technologies
that we're hoping to introduce.
So since it's really the foundation,
we're going to talk about
Uniform Type Identifiers first,
and then later on, my colleague,
Bryan Prusha, will come up and talk about
Carbon Pasteboard and Translation.
So in order to help you kind
of understand the concepts of
Uniform Type Identification,
I wanted to start with an example of,
I just picked a type, TIFF, TIFF images.
How do we know what a TIFF image is?
What's a TIFF?
I'm not talking about what's the format,
but how do we identify TIFFs?
And the first one that you
might see is the OS type TIFF.
It's what a lot of Carbon apps
would work with if they were
putting TIFF data on the scrap.
But there's also a MIME type.
So an image coming in over
the internet would have the
image slash TIFF MIME type.
There also happens to be
a file name extension,
.TIFF.
There's another file name extension,
.TIFF, which you have to recognize.
Your app working with TIFF data or
TIFF files has to also recognize
that file name extension.
And then data put on the Pasteboard by
a Cocoa application would use a string,
NSTIFF_PBOARD_TYPE.
So there's kind of this whole
cloud of type identifiers.
And currently on Mac OS X and
previous macOSes,
the only facility really for tying these
together at all was Internet Config,
which was very internet oriented.
And its API is also pretty fixed in
terms of the type of the interface.
So it's not just a type of the interface.
It's a type of the
interface that supports,
for instance,
it doesn't understand anything about
[Transcript missing]
In the example here,
the identifier that we're
talking about is public.tiff.
And this is the Uniform
Type Identifier for the Tiff data type.
And I like to think of
The new Type Identifier is the one
true name for the type on the system.
To use a literary analogy,
it's one name to rule them,
one name to find them,
one name to bring them
all in the darkness,
bind them.
Not only does the Uniform
Type Identifier identify the TIF type,
but the API makes it very easy
to discover all of the other
type descriptors for this type.
It's kind of the nexus
for type description.
So what about that public thing up front?
Well, unlike MIME types,
Uniform Type Identifiers don't
actually express any sort of
type hierarchy in the name.
So the prefix on any type identifier is,
in general, a reverse DNS name.
We're reusing the reverse
DNS naming convention that is in
use in several places on Mac OS X,
such as in bundle identifiers.
So type identifiers that are proprietary
or associated with a particular
organization are prefixed with that
organization's reverse domain space.
However,
there's a lot of types that really aren't
owned by any particular organization,
and those go in the public domain,
which is, at this point,
controlled by Apple.
I encourage you not to use the
public domain and let us put
things into the public domain.
Now, because of this naming convention,
I mean, Uniform Type Identifier really
is just... It's just a string,
and the format is a naming convention
that we're asking everyone to use.
If you follow the naming convention,
you're pretty much guaranteed to
not conflict with anybody else,
A.
And B, it's a very descriptive
string for what the type is.
It tells you not only at the end,
it can describe something about the type,
but it indicates what organization
actually owns and defines that type.
And so it gives you, as a developer,
when you see some Uniform
Type... Identifier coming at
you from another application,
you have an idea of where to go
to learn more about that type.
Throughout the rest of the talk,
we might be referring to them as UTIs,
Uniform Type Identifiers.
That's the abbreviation.
So what are some examples?
In addition to public.tiff,
another one is a little more verbose,
public.utf.plaintext.
So that's an example of
a very descriptive type.
You can pretty much look at
that and figure out what it is.
It's a Unicode UTF-16
encoded chunk of plain text.
In fact,
this is the type that we encourage
everyone to start using with the
Carbon Pasteboard when you are sending
plain text to another application.
Here's an example.
Picked, a quick draw picked is something
that is specific to Apple and so
we put it in the com.apple space.
Adobe might, they haven't done this,
but just as an example,
they might for Photoshop documents use
com.adobe.psd or they might use something
more verbose like Photoshop document.
So in addition to describing,
identifying types specifically,
there's something else which the
system has never done before to model
our understanding of types that we
all have as developers and as users,
which is what else do we
know about a TIFF as humans?
We know that it's an image,
and we know that it's a chunk of data.
And what the Uniform Type Identification
system does is allow types to
exist in a conformance hierarchy.
We can declare types as conforming
to supertypes so that even if your
app doesn't know anything about a
very specific type that you receive,
you can discover that, oh,
this type is actually a form of text,
or it's a form, or it's an image.
That example was somewhat trivial,
but a somewhat more interesting
example is receiving something that
I'm not even going to pronounce because
every time I did during rehearsals,
I sounded silly.
But this is an example of something
you have no idea what it is,
and it arrives at your application
through a drag gesture,
say, and you would think you
can't do anything with it.
But if you happen to be an XML parser,
you can say, is this type XML?
And it turns out it does conform to XML.
Or is it even generic text?
And you can discover from by asking the
system that it does conform to text.
And so you can actually
work with this data,
even though you don't know the
complete specifics of its format.
So in those last few slides, then,
I've just outlined all the major
goals of Uniform Type Identifiers
to kind of tie together all the
disparate type identifier spaces,
model conformance between types,
Enable extensibility through new
third-party type declarations
without needing a registry or
having to worry about collisions.
And in support of all that,
just provide a very simple,
lightweight API,
which is a foundation for any component
or code that needs to do type management.
So now I'd like to go back and
just go through the same concepts
with a little more detail about
some of the API behind this.
When we talk about OS types
and MIME types and extensions
and NSPasteboard types,
we needed a word to describe all of that,
so we just kind of picked this one, tags.
What we have,
that cloud of blue identifiers
are all tags that are related to a
particular Uniform Type Identifier.
And each tag has a class.
The class indicates if it's an OS type
or a file name extension or a MIME type,
etc.
And the thing to remember
about tags is that there's not
always a one-to-one mapping.
Usually there's a one-to-one mapping,
but not always.
And so some cases are complex.
You have to map multiple file
name extensions back to the
same Uniform Type Identifier.
Sometimes the same extension or
OS type may have a collision and may
map to two different type identifiers.
So our API makes it easy to deal with
the common case of a one-to-one mapping,
but it also allows you to...
enumerate all the different
combinations so that you can discover
more complex type relationships.
So here's that cloud again of types,
and the API lets you easily map between
the tags around the outside and the
one true type identifier in the middle.
And so that makes it very easy
to go through kind of a two-step
translation where you get to
the uniform type identifier,
and then you want to know what
the tag is in another space,
and you can go from there to the tag.
And this is actually used probably
more heavily in the system than you
may have to use it because we have
to deal with Cocoa Apps and file name
extensions in the file dialogs and
We're going to talk about the
OS types in the Scrap Manager,
and we need to make all
those systems work together,
especially moving data between the
NS Pasteboard and the Scrap Manager.
And so we rely on this internally to do
all of our mapping between namespaces.
And how do we do that?
It's very simple.
This is just a trivial example
of taking the OS type JPEG,
which is treated as a string in the API,
and you call UT type create
preferred identifier for tag.
You pass in the tag information.
You say that it's an OS type tag,
and you get back the
type identifier for JPEG,
which happens to be public.jpeg.
Then if you want to go to
the MIME type for that,
you would just do another--
it's another string operation,
UT type copy preferred tag with class.
And you say you want the MIME type class.
And you get back the string,
which is image/jpeg.
So it's a very simple mapping process.
Now onto the conformance model
and testing types for equality.
So this is just a simple
hierarchy of type identifiers.
We've got HTML and XML as
generic text types,
and then XML includes
com.apple.propertylist on your right,
and XHTML is a subtype of XML.
And let's say you're receiving some
data from another application and you
There it is.
You handle XML.
You're some sort of XML processor.
You want to find out if the data is XML.
You can ask, does the data that I'm
receiving conform to XML?
And if the type identifier that
you're receiving is XHTML or
com.apple.plist or just plain XML,
then you get back the answer, yes,
this is data that I can deal with.
In other contexts,
you actually do want to test for
specific equality of type information,
and we provide an API for that,
which fundamentally uses a string
comparison to do the equality.
But there are cases where a
string comparison isn't enough.
Here are those APIs.
Again, very simple.
Just two input strings,
returns a Boolean.
And I wanted to say a little
bit more about why the equal...
Why the equality test is there?
Obviously, to do conformance testing,
you have to resort to calling
that so that we can use the
type information in our database
to give you the right answer.
As for equality, well,
we do use a string comparison
internally to test equality.
It's case insensitive since
these are like DNS names.
UTIs are all case insensitive.
But we also expect in the future that,
you know,
as carefully as we've tried to design
the naming conventions for types,
we're expecting that
little warts will happen.
There will be a type identifier
which is in somebody's or some
organization's domain and somebody else
will put it in the public domain or
Apple will want it in the public domain.
And if you use this API to test
for conformance and equality,
we'll be able to do things like declare
two type identifiers as synonyms.
and everyone will just continue
to work if you use our API.
So I want to talk a little
bit about declaring new types.
I don't want to go into the details,
but there are some samples
I can point you at.
So new type identifiers are
declared in bundle property lists,
in your application's
bundle property lists.
In fact, all of our built-in identifiers
are declared currently,
anyway,
in the seed in systemicons.bundle,
down in system library core services.
So you can go there to find an example.
It's very similar to the,
if you're familiar with declaring
document types in your P-List,
declaring the types of
documents you can open,
it's very similar to that.
We've kind of taken that idea and
abstracted it out to just deal with
type information so that you can
declare in your P-List what your
type identifier is that you want to
use and what the equivalent tags are
so that you can associate it with
MIME types and file name extensions,
as well as what it conforms to.
Is it an image?
Is it text?
or something more specific.
And once you do that and your app
becomes registered on the system,
we add that type information to our
database and it's available globally
so that when you send your data to
another application with your specific
type identifier attached to it,
that application can use our API to
discover things about your data.
The last thing I wanted to say
about it was that there's actually
two ways to declare a type.
One is called exported
and one is imported.
It's a little subtle, but it's necessary.
In general, for any type identifier that
you are giving out to the
world for your data type,
you export it from your property list.
You make an exported declaration.
If you're using a built-in type,
such as any of the public types,
then you can rely on that always
being declared in the system because
the OS guarantees that it's there.
But sometimes your app might
depend on some third-party
type that has been declared in,
say, a Microsoft application.
You want to import Word documents,
and Microsoft has declared in their
bundle a Microsoft Word identifier.
You depend on that declaration.
You depend on the system
knowing about that UTI.
But you don't know if
Microsoft Word is installed on
the system you're running on.
In fact,
you probably hope it isn't installed
because you want to read those
files and provide services for
importing Microsoft Word documents.
In that case,
you can actually re-declare Microsoft's
definition or declaration of their type.
That's called importing.
You say,
I'm importing this type declaration,
which really tells us that you're not
the definitive owner of that type.
And if Word is installed or the
third-party app is installed,
we'll use their declaration.
But if you want to ensure
that a declaration is there,
then you can use that style of importing.
So that is really an overview.
I didn't cover all of the API.
As I said, there's additional functions
for dealing with ambiguities and
mapping between different types.
But it's a conceptual overview.
And what are the guidelines
for working with these?
Again, we provide tests,
especially when working with
Pasteboard data and drag data.
You want to use -- these new
APIs use uniform type identifiers.
And so you want to use the
conformance and equality test
when receiving data to find out
if it's data that you can accept.
Wherever possible, use the built-in types
that we're providing.
And when you do need
to declare new types,
just make sure you pick an identifier
that's in your organization's domain
space so that you're guaranteed,
as long as your own organization
is coordinating within itself,
you're guaranteed to have a
unique identifier for your data.
This is all implemented as
essentially an extension of
the Launch Services database.
And so in the seed anyway,
the API and extensive commentary and
documentation lives in launchservices.h.
It's likely to get its own
header file before we go GM,
but that's where you can look in
the seed for more information.
So that is the foundation
for type management.
And this brings us to
Bryan's part of the talk,
where he'll talk about
how the Carbon Pasteboard
leverages type identification.
All right, thank you, Chris.
Chris has just laid a great
foundation for these two new
APIs with Uniform Type Identification.
Now I'd like to introduce
the Carbon Pasteboard
and Translation Services,
which will leverage this foundation.
First, I want to talk about
Data Exchange today a little bit more.
As Chris mentioned earlier,
we have separate scrap and drag managers.
They do basically the same thing.
You put information on a scrap
or a drag on one application,
you pull it off on another application.
This is a little redundant.
This not only means that you have
to pay attention to two APIs,
then you have to do twice
the work in your app.
So you have twice the amount of code.
And these involve different models.
The scrap manager only has a single item.
Drag manager has multiple items.
The way that you provide
data or provide promises and
fulfill promises are different.
So it's really kind of a pain to
keep in mind which model you're in.
Also, as Chris mentioned,
there's a limited typing mechanism.
They're both based on OS types.
And you can have collisions.
You need to contact Apple and make
sure that you register your types.
And this is difficult and something
we wanted to move away from.
and currently there's pretty much
non-existent communication with Cocoa.
You might think, well,
I can copy and paste between Cocoa and
certainly they can communicate,
but this is something that's
handled by us internally.
We only do it for a few
standard text and picture types.
And so there's really no way for
an OS-type based API to communicate
with a string-based Cocoa API.
And the memory model is
fairly labor intensive.
What I mean by this is that when
you want to pull information
off of a scrap or drag,
you have to ask how
large the information is.
And then once you have that,
create your own memory,
then ask for that memory to be filled in,
and then release that later.
So we wanted to get away
from each of these issues.
Now the solution to that
is the Carbon Pasteboard.
The Carbon Pasteboard is the unification
of the scrap and drag flavor APIs.
So it's a complete replacement,
and you can move away from them today.
The Carbon Pasteboard
supports copy and paste,
drag and drop, and services,
both Apple menu services and
translation filter services,
which I'll get into later.
We really like the model
of having multiple items,
each with their own set of
flavors that the drag manager has.
We think this is very flexible and
we wanted to bring that forward.
Flavor types are now based
on Uniform Type Identifiers.
One great thing for scrap and drag
means that because it's based on UTIs,
you can now communicate
with NS Pasteboard types.
You can now convert the UTIs into UTIs
and then you can pull them off as Uniform
Type Identifiers and then convert them
into any type you like using the UTI API.
and the Pasteboard, Carbon Pasteboard is
core foundation based.
The Pasteboard Reference itself
is a core foundation type and
so you'll want to use the,
you'll want to release them
after you've created them.
But the entire, throughout the API,
it's based on core foundations.
You'll see CFStrings,
dictionaries and data.
All right,
let's talk about the base type that
you'll be dealing with Pasteboard,
the Pasteboard Reference.
A Pasteboard Reference is a proxy
to a global Pasteboard resource.
You can have multiple references,
a reference in multiple applications
to a single global Pasteboard.
That's kind of the point so you
can communicate between the two.
You can have multiple references
within a single application.
So if you have multiple objects
within your application,
each one of them could have
a local Pasteboard ref.
As the number of references on the system
within multiple applications increases,
the ref count on the global
Pasteboard resource increases.
And so as each of the references
are released through CF release,
then the references on the
global Pasteboard release,
once the last application
has released its reference,
the global Pasteboard memory goes away.
Now there are two exceptions to this,
which I'll mention in a moment.
[Transcript missing]
Now that we've created a Pasteboard,
you want to access that Pasteboard
to do certain operations with it,
typically reading or writing.
So the first thing I'm going to talk
about is reading from the Pasteboard.
Before you want to read
from the Pasteboard,
you want to check out and see if any
other applications have modified it.
So you can call PasteboardSynchronize,
which returns a set of flags indicating
whether the Pasteboard has been modified.
So if some other
application is in the front,
the user has performed a copy,
your application has been
brought to the front,
and you're curious as to whether
you want to enable paste or not.
You can call PasteboardSynchronize
on the clipboard,
the clipboard pasteboard,
and it will return a set
of flags indicating whether
it's been modified or not.
If it has, then you can go ahead and
look at the Pasteboard,
see if there are any
tasty flavors on there.
If so,
go ahead and enable your paste item,
paste menu item.
Now if you're going to write
new information to a Pasteboard,
you want to make sure
that you clear it first.
Clearing the Pasteboard wipes
out any data that any other
application has written to it and
makes your application the owner.
So you are the only one who
can write to it at that time.
So the two rules here are always
sync your Pasteboard before reading
data from it and always clear the
Pasteboard before writing to it.
There are two branches
I could take at this point,
either writing or reading data.
I'm going to take the
reading data branch first.
When you're receiving
data from the Pasteboard,
the Pasteboard has multiple items.
You want to get the number of items
through Pasteboard Get Item Count,
and then we access each of the
items through a unique identifier.
It doesn't matter what the identifier is.
It could be 1, 2, 3, just indices,
or it could be a pointer
to your data in memory.
This is actually very similar to
the way the Drag Manager works
today with multiple items.
So if you're used to that model,
most of you should have some drag code or
copy and paste code in your application.
So a lot of this will look very familiar.
Thank you.
Okay,
once you've looked at the first item,
you can enumerate the items.
You want to look at all the
flavors that are inside.
So unlike the drag manager,
which required you to not only
iterate through each of the items,
but then iterate through
each of the flavors,
we'll pass all the flavors to
you at once in a single API,
Pasteboard Copy Item Flavors.
It passes back a core foundation array.
Each of the types on the Pasteboard
are uniform type identifiers.
So you'll want to make sure to
use the comparison routines,
especially when you're reading the data,
especially conformance.
Ask for the data in as
general a way as possible.
If you're a general text editor,
first you want to ask,
is text available on the Pasteboard?
And then you can be more
specific after that if you like.
One important thing to notice,
translations are back
with Translation Services.
And the translations are always
offered after the sender flavors.
So ordering is important when pulling
flavors off of the Pasteboard.
When you're done with the flavor array,
you'll want to release it.
Okay,
now you've got a bunch of these flavors,
but you want some more rich metadata
associated with these flavors.
So you can grab the flavor flags via
Pasteboard Get Item Flavor Flags.
Now,
these are almost exactly the same sort
of flags available in Drag Manager today.
This is for compatibility,
with one exception.
There's a request-only flag now
that behaves very similarly to
the sender-only flag of yesterday.
It behaves a little like having
an unlisted phone number.
So somebody trolling through the phone
book can't find your phone number,
but if you share it with your friends,
then you can call each other.
And so this is very nice if you
have a suite of applications and you
want to communicate between them,
but you don't really want to announce
certain data types out to the world.
And so any flavor that you add to the
Pasteboard that has a request-only
flag set on it will not be advertised
in the previous API that returns
all the flavors on the Pasteboard.
But if you know the flavor name,
you can go ahead and ask for
it explicitly and then get
its flags and get the data.
So this is a nice addition
that I think you'll appreciate.
Okay, once you've looked at
all the flavor flags,
you've looked at the flavors,
paid attention to their ordering,
there's a rich amount of information
there that you want to pay attention to.
But you've decided you've got
the flavor that's right for you,
and you want to get the data.
The single API you want to
deal with at this point is
Pasteboard Copy Item Flavor Data.
Again, it's based on CFData,
and so you'll want to release the
memory when you're done with it.
But now you don't have
to do any allocation,
you don't have to ask
how big the flavor is,
it's very simple.
Okay, now let's back up a little bit.
I mentioned that there are
two branches we could take.
Let's go down the other branch where we
can add information to the Pasteboard.
When you add data,
the first thing you want to do
is add data in your application's
order of preference in richness.
Now, that seems a little odd.
You'd think you want to add it
in the order of richness that
a receiving app would prefer.
But really, when you're initiating a drag
or putting information onto
the Pasteboard for a copy,
there's no way to know what
the receiver is going to be.
And so you can't anticipate what order
they will want the information in.
So the best thing you can do is
indicate this by adding information
in your application's order of
richness as just an indication saying,
"You might want to look
at this item first."
In order to add a promise,
you can pass null as the data or
the KPasteboardPromiseData constant.
Now, this is very convenient.
There's just one way to add data,
one way to add promises.
There's no longer two separate
models between scrap and drag.
Once you've added data,
you want to fulfill this
in a promise keeper,
so keeping promises.
You have to install a Promise Keeper
before making promises.
The Carbon Pasteboard makes sure that
you are able to fulfill the promises
that you add because it wants to
guarantee that receivers of that
information can get access to it.
In order to keep the promise,
some application has requested that your
promise be fulfilled and your Pasteboard
Promise Keeper proc will be called back.
You'll be given the Pasteboard
that the promise was made on,
the item that it was made within,
and the flavor type being requested,
and any context information
that you've passed through.
So when the promise is going to be kept,
just call Pasteboard put item
flavor data as if you were not
making a promise to begin with.
Very simple.
Again, it's just a single API for adding
data and fulfilling promises.
So promises-- one cool thing here
is that promises are resolved when
you release your Pasteboard ref.
So if you have, again,
a plugin architecture,
and each one of your plugins has
its own Pasteboard reference,
and they can each make promises
to the global Pasteboard
independently of the others.
And so if one plugin
is brought into memory,
it adds a promise to the Pasteboard.
But for some reason,
it's going to be moved out.
You're dropping that plugin.
Then when it releases the Pasteboard,
only its promises will
be explicitly called in.
All the others will remain.
So this is a great way to allow
promises in a plugin architecture.
All right, I mentioned that this is a
replacement for the Drag Flavor APIs.
There are a couple of
additions to the Drag Manager.
You can see some HeaderDoc on
them in drag.h in HIToolbox.
You can use the Pasteboard
with the Drag in two ways.
Either create a drag and pull
the Pasteboard out of it.
This is useful if you're receiving a drag
and you want to use the Pasteboard API.
Then you can just,
when you're given the drag ref,
pull the Pasteboard out of it.
Or, depending on the flow
of your application,
if you're using the same code to perform
copy and paste and drag and drop,
maybe you have a Pasteboard
that exists already.
So you can call new drag with Pasteboard,
and a new drag will be created with
the Pasteboard that you've provided.
A couple guidelines now for
using the Carbon Pasteboard.
Always pay attention to the
flavor flags and ordering.
If you're receiving information,
you want to take advantage of
all the information that you
have to choose the right flavor.
We've had issues when trying to
add some default translations that
applications will see a translated
flavor and think that that's the
one they want in a given context.
In fact,
the context that you'd be pasting
or dragging into might not even
be applicable for that type.
So it's very important to take all
the information that you have and
make the best decision you can.
Always use UTI comparisons
for the best results.
You want to leverage that API to get the
most coverage you can in receiving data.
One note about the WWDC seed is
that NSPasteboard types are added
by Cocoa as NSPasteboard types.
They are not yet converted
to Uniform Type Identifiers.
Their existence is only temporary.
They will be going away.
They will be converted to Uniform
Type Identifiers before Panther ships.
So I don't want you to see
them and depend on them.
So pay attention to that being there.
This will change for Panther.
And again, there's plenty of header
documentation in Pasteboard.h.
This is located in hiservices in
the Application Services Framework.
There's HeaderDoc there.
There's a couple features that
I wasn't able to get into here.
Go check it out for details.
Also, there's some sample code that we
whipped up for the conference,
Pasteboard Peeker.
It's kind of a cool little sort of text
editing app that shows you everything
that is on a drag or in the Pasteboard.
You can add information
to a drag or Pasteboard.
And it exercises the API and
shows you how you can use it.
That's on the ADC member site.
Go check it out.
All right, that's the Carbon Pasteboard.
Let's get on to Translation Services.
Thank you.
Let's talk about translation
the way it is today.
Again, there are a set of problems
that we've discovered,
and we really wanted to solve these.
Again, there's a limited typing mechanism
with four character codes,
OS types.
And we've gone over this several times.
It's also a legacy API.
For instance, it's based on FS specs,
which have no Unicode support,
and so we couldn't support the
full type of -- full number of --
of files that we want to
support on Mac OS X today.
In fact, with the memory model,
it's still based on handles,
and it's still based on
C arrays of all things.
If you wanted to get some
information in an array back
from the translation manager,
you'd have to pass through a C array.
And if you didn't allocate enough space,
too bad if it wanted to give you more
information than you had asked for.
And the third thing,
and really one of the biggest things,
is that the way to extend
translations in Mac OS 9 and earlier,
the plug-in mechanism
was based on extensions.
And extensions simply don't
exist in Mac OS X today.
And so this is an issue that
really needed to be resolved.
And the solution?
Translation services.
So translation services is the
successor to the translation manager.
The source and destination types are both
provided as Uniform Type Identifiers,
so very flexible.
It's extensible via filter services,
which I mentioned earlier.
This is something else, actually,
that we've adopted from Cocoa.
They're very similar to
Apple Menu Services with
a modified plist,
and I'll get into that later.
And the entire API, again,
is core foundation-based,
so it has an advanced memory model.
So a translation reference.
A translation reference is the
base type you'll be dealing with.
It's a proxy to a resource on
the system that translates data
from one format to another.
It contains all the information that's
required to perform a translation,
the source type that it handles,
the destination type it will provide,
and whether it handles
file or data translations.
And in the Translation Services model,
translation discovery and
execution are separated.
And so that's important because
you can create a translation if you
know you're going to be referencing
that translation many times,
translating many files or something,
for instance.
You can hold on to that.
Because it's a CF type,
you can throw it in a
CFArray or a dictionary and
keep it around until later.
So let's talk about discovery.
Translation Create.
Translation Create is a pretty simple,
straightforward API for finding
a translation you might need.
Let's say you have a source file.
You have point A here,
and you want to get to point B.
You know that there's a
destination you want to get to.
Does a translation exist
that supports that?
So you can hand the source type,
the destination type,
and searching for data and
file translations is performed
through the same API now.
And so you can pass through
the translation flags,
whether you want a translation
that handles just data,
just files, or maybe both.
And then if the resource exists
that performs this translation,
the translation reference
is handed back to you.
So that was for very simple needs.
If you have more detailed
or complex discovery needs,
you can use Translation
Create with SourceArray.
This will handle any permutation of
translation discovery that you need.
Given an array of source types,
it will provide to you all the
possible destinations that can be
generated from those source types
and a dictionary of translation refs
which perform those translations.
The dictionary of translation refs
is keyed by the destination type,
and so it's easy to do the lookup.
Again, when you decide on the
translation that's right for you,
you need to release the
CFArray and the CFDictionary.
Now,
how do you discover which translation,
out of all those translations,
which one is the right one for you?
Well,
you can use the translation accessors.
You have access to the source type,
the destination type, and the translation
flags that it supports.
We hope to add more accessors in the
future when more information is provided.
This is a way you can go through
and decide that I really want to
get to this destination type and
You really want to get
to one destination type,
but I'd prefer it coming from
this source than this source,
because maybe this one
is a little bit richer.
You can really get fine
detailed if you want to.
All right,
you've discovered a translation.
You've created it.
You've got it in your hot little hand.
And you want to now
perform a translation.
You want to execute a translation.
So if you want to perform
a data translation,
you can call translation
perform for data,
hand it to the translation ref,
hand it your source data as a CFData.
And then a CFDataRef will be given back
to you holding the destination data.
Read that data out,
do whatever you want with it,
and then release it.
There are a couple things
you need to pay attention to.
Make sure that when you're handing
a translation ref to translation
perform for data that it actually
handles data translations.
Otherwise,
you'll receive an error immediately.
Also,
something that you want to make sure
is that the source and destination
types in the translation ref are the
same source and destination that you're
providing and expecting from this API.
Very similar for translating files,
call translation perform for file,
pass through the translation ref,
your source file,
you can provide the destination directory
and name for the destination file.
And then the API will return an
FSRef of your translated file.
And again, you need to make sure that the
translation ref supports files
and that you have the correct
source and destination types.
If your application happens
to not be FSRef based or your
translation code is not FSRef based,
you can use the URL API.
Currently, only file URLs are supported.
And again, when you receive the URL to
your translated file,
release the CFURL reference.
I've mentioned filter services
a couple times along the way.
These are the extension mechanism
for the default translations.
These are very similar to
Apple Menu Services with
a modified plist.
So if you've written one of those,
these will be very familiar.
I don't want to get into
too much detail here.
The Pasteboard Peeker sample, again,
that I mentioned earlier,
down at the bottom of the slide,
has an example for you.
But when you're going to
perform a translation,
your service is launched, if necessary,
if it's not already running.
The source data is delivered
to you on a Pasteboard.
You can pull that data off,
perform a translation,
and then put the destination
data back on the Pasteboard,
hand it back, and the client can have
access to that data.
All right, a couple guidelines for
Translation Services.
Use Translate Create for
very simple needs.
If you have one or two types that you're
interested in for a given source type,
you can just call it a
couple times and ask,
does it handle this flavor?
Can I get this flavor?
Oh, I can get this one.
Great.
If you have more complex needs than that,
call Translation Create with SourceArray.
And again,
it'll handle any permutations you have.
Definitely check out the
TranslationServices.h header for details.
Lots of HeaderDoc there again.
There's lots of examples there for how to
create a translation service and so on.
So go check it out in HSServices in
the Application Services Framework.
All right.
In summary,
we've come up with three great new
APIs that I think will -- I know
they definitely help us internally,
and we're really hoping that
they'll be great for you.
What we need to do now is, you know,
you've got the seed in your hands.
Get to work.
Uniform Type Identifiers are a
really flexible framework for typing.
If you have data that you need to type,
it's the way to go.
Always declare new types
in your Internet domain so
that if they are your types,
you own them.
otherwise import them
from other applications.
and always use the
UTI API for conformance tests.
This is your mantra,
because you want to make sure that you
can really leverage the full flexibility
of the Uniform Type Identification API.
Pasteboards can really streamline
your scrap and drag usage.
I was coming up with that
Pasteboard peeker sample and it
was really cool just how simple.
I could use the same function
to read data from both drags and
copies and the same function to add
information to drags and copies.
Really convenient.
Now that you have access through
UTIs to Cocoa applications,
look at Cocoa applications
that your app might be able to
correspond with and really see how
you can leverage Cocoa app usage.
And then always be aware
of automatic translations.
They're there to help you,
but make sure that they're
not getting in your way.
Make sure that you're looking at
the flags to see whether it's a
translation or not and decide whether
you want to have a translation or not.
And update to translation services.
Translation Manager is
frankly unimplemented on 10.
We wanted to make it happen,
but because of the
reasons I stated earlier,
I knew that we could create a
much better solution for you.
And use filter services to
extend the default translations.
There's only a limited set that
Apple will be able to provide.
There was a really rich set
of translations available
in the Mac OS 9 world.
We'd really like to see those
brought forward to Mac OS X.
So check this out.
This is an excellent third-party
opportunity for all of you.
So with that,
I'd like to bring Xavier back
up for the wrap up.
Thank you.
OK, quickly,
the roadmap before we go to the Q&A.
Session 4.9, the HIToolbox was Wednesday.
Some of you can travel in time.
I encourage you to look at that session.
It was pretty good.
And if not, we'll have it on DVDs.
Using the Apple tools
for Carbon development,
same thing.
That was just before.
But Apple has been investing a
lot of time and effort in Xcode,
and I encourage you as
well to check it out.
You won't have to travel
in time to see session 416,
which is optimizing
performance on Presidio.
It's a great,
great session for anybody that is doing
C and C++ development on our platform.
We're going to be going
through a ton of information.
We're going to give you ideas on how
to improve performance on your app.
Please join us this afternoon.
And tomorrow, of course,
if you haven't heard,
we have a brand new H.I.
Toolbox available in Mac OS X.
Since 10.2, we introduced H.I.
View.
And should you need more information
on this great technology please
join us tomorrow afternoon
All right.
Should you... Did you change that?
You're so fired.
You are so fired.
Anyway, we'll fix that later.
Should you have any questions
on the new Pasteboard Services,
please send me an email and
we'll try to get you going.
It's very important to understand
that the idea here is we
need to have your feedback.
So please check out the APIs and contact
us should you have any specific needs.
Or maybe we forgot something,
or maybe there's a special case to
make you run that we need to implement.
And that's the idea with having
WDC and giving you the seat of painter.